# Analysis

## Speech-to-Text Recognition

Upload trimmed recordings to WildTrax or other software for speech-to-text recognition to convert audio data into text format for analysis.


Run the speech-to-text recognizer
During the deployment of the ARU, the field technician records a voice note as the initial recording. The voice note has the following format:
Location name
Spatial coordinates* (not applicable for Ecosystem Health locations)
Date and time
Observers
Comments
“This is A B M I dash Five Six Five dash S W. The date is February 23rd 2022 and the time is 11:06 AM Mountain standard time. Observers are John Doe and Jane Doe.”
A speech-to-text recognizer is used to transcribe this into text information in order to extract the location name, spatial coordinates or confirm the temporal stamp of the ARU, all for quality control purposes. The Google Cloud Speech-to-Text recognizer is an advanced deep learning neural network using algorithms for automatic speech recognition. The recognizer can also use one of several machine learning models to transcribe the audio files, support for French and other language variants, and alternatives based on likelihood values. Google has trained these speech recognition models for specific audio types and sources. For example, time stamps derived from the observer speech-to-text array as well as the recording time stamp from the audio would be joined into to create a unique location and recording date with the file prefix from the ARU. Some general steps to get started would be to:
Create a lookup table for the locations or spatial coordinates. This can be generated by downloading a list of location names or coordinates entered from WildTrax either in the organization or the project (see Location Management)
Run the script and instruct the prompts what settings and files you want to use as inputs
Folder with audio files
Matching threshold (0 - 100, where 100 is a perfect match)
Length of desired trimmed files (in seconds)
Output file name for csv results

Upload the trimmed media to WildTrax
	Once the recordings are trimmed to the correct length of time Bioacoustic Unit staff will upload them to WildTrax. Go to My Data -> My Projects and search for the appropriate project for your data. Follow the WildTrax protocols on getting data uploaded to a project. 

## Quality control procedures

## Upload to WildTrax

## Data processing
